welcome to Facebook live I'm doing an
amorite now let's get a little bit crazy
we're gonna be talking at least off the
bat about how extreme ownership may be
holding you back can't believe that one
but let's go deep on that but before we
do that I want to announce that we have
re launched or launched some new items
in the store so go check it out we have
some amazing new apparel with some
really really cool self signaling items
so go check those bad boys out and we
have a 10% off coupon that's gonna be
live from now until an hour after this
Emma so don't delay it's a 10% off
coupon it is am Alive am a li ve for 10%
off everything at shop.com go check it
out
alright without further ado actually
with a little more ado I will say that
if this is adding value please do share
it that's how we're growing the
community and to anybody out there that
is in New York
I am leaving tonight not long after this
Emma I am jumping on a flight I'm coming
to see you guys so we're doing a
meet-and-greet I believe that we're at
capacity yes but we have we have a
waiting list for those that may want to
see if somebody else fails to show up
get on that waiting list
worst case scenario swing by the venue
say what is up you can stalk me right
outside the venue yeah so we're gonna be
doing our endless Q&A so for people that
made that on the list I will be there we
will be answering all of your questions
and that event is Thursday yes beautiful
Thursday 7:00 p.m. the eastern time I'm
almost certain okay here we go all right
the first question comes from the
connect inbox this is from Christy
Ratliff can you talk about the tension
between between extreme ownership and
holding others accountable is everything
my fault how do I hold anyone
accountable for their faults or do I
okay so this is one of those areas where
you have to be able to hold two
competing ideas in your head at the same
time if you're not taking
dream ownership yourself if you're not
asking how you created this situation
where people could be letting you down
where they're not living up to the
standards that you've set for the
company or for your department whatever
the case may be you you really will make
the same mistakes over and over and over
you've got to look inward you've got to
look at how you've created that
environment how you're responsible for
that the whole idea behind extreme
ownership is really very simple and into
something that I think people really
[__] misunderstand it is not about
beating yourself up it's not about
feeling bad for yourself about yourself
it's really about understanding that
you're in control that in taking
responsibility you maintain that control
and that you're always looking for ways
that you can do something to improve
this situation the flip side of that
coin however is if in the organization
you're trying to be a leader and all you
ever do is look at how it's your fault
not that you always look at how it's
your fault because you should be doing
that but if you only look at how it's
your fault you're not going to be able
to empower your organization or quite
frankly holds your organization to a
standard where it is very clear what is
expected of people so you have to do
both and if you're only doing one side
of the extreme ownership equation it
really can hold you back and I find that
some people do get stuck there and it it
no matter what your ideological sticking
point is when your ideas become real
Dogma meaning that you're not looking at
things in a nuanced and flexible way
you're gonna hem yourself in and you're
really going to be missing the
opportunity to have the kind of impact
that you want so extreme ownership is
merely where you start it isn't where
you're going to end up so you've got to
communicate to your organization exactly
what is expected of them communicate to
them when they're not meeting those
expectations in a very clear real-time
way in fact chase is sitting right next
to me and I have to thank this man for
introducing me to the Ray Dalio school
of thought he did a TED talk recently
which I actually think the TED talk
wasn't very good but one of the concepts
that he lays out in the TED talk is so
genius that it's worth sitting through
the entire thing even though it's going
to its
require that you do some thinking after
the fact to really make use of the
information but Ray Dalio is the founder
of the largest most successful hedge
fund company in the world I believe
Chase is nodding furiously so we'll
assume that that is accurate and they've
created a piece of software in their
company that was designed to solve a
problem that he had which was he thought
he was very smart but he knew that he
was very wrong with a de-stressing
frequency so he wanted to make sure that
he facilitated people and his companies
speaking up so that truly it was a
meritocracy meaning that the best idea
was always finding its way to the
forefront and that it wasn't just his
idea because he owned the company that
as soon as he presented that idea that
it would crush other people down or that
people would be intimidated and afraid
to speak up so he created the software
that allowed people in real time non
anonymously so man your name was tagged
all over your comments sewn on
anonymously you were going to speak up
and say what you thought about every
person's performance in the room
in real time and everybody was doing it
to everybody and you could at the end of
the meeting see where everybody was
ranking everybody else man you want to
talk about something that I was thrilled
at the notion so I've already asked my
team to give me the most aggressive
feedback ever publicly like I want to
know what people think even when it's
harsh and I am very happy in fact I
would prefer it to be given publicly and
the reason that I would prefer that
feedback to be given publicly and this
is a secret don't tell anyone I believe
that's how people should be I believe
everybody should want public feedback
and that is very much not where most
people reside but I think that part of
the reason that I've gotten where I've
gotten like you have to remember I
started as a [__] copywriter I did
not start as the owner of the company I
did not found a company 15 years ago I
was hired as a copywriter and I turned
that into an entrepreneurial journey by
always trying to be real with myself
about where I was about the level of
value that I was delivering about my
need to outwork everybody learn more
than anybody else to really push my
skill set and to always be judging
myself not
by my intentions but rather solely by my
results so that meant that I couldn't
hide from feedback that meant that I
needed to know when I was [__] up I
needed people to tell me and one of the
things that I realized my skill set was
serving me very very well was my ability
to self-soothe now according to Ray
Dalio meaning if somebody upset me if
they gave me feedback that really [__]
sucked and it made me think less about
myself or whatever the emotional
consequence of that that I could rapidly
get myself to a calm centered creative
standpoint re-engage and my goal began
to could I keep that from even crossing
my face I couldn't stop it from hurting
steaming whatever it always sucks to
hear you suck so I knew that was gonna
be a reality but how fast could I get
myself back to where I could hear that
feedback I could usefully respond to
that so that's why I've asked my team to
give me that feedback and to give it to
me publicly I also want to set the stage
as a leader I believe that we should all
show people by example how they should
take criticism even when it is brutally
harsh and the way that we should be
doing them by the way I'm not saying you
should try to give your feedback in a
harsh manner I just want people to know
even if that is your feedback even that
is okay even that trumps silence I would
rather somebody be a dick to me not that
I think it's good or smart or wise or
even effective but I would rather that
than silence because silence is how [__]
gets super [__] weird and then people
start bitching behind other people's
backs and it's not even always about the
boss it's just about everybody people
[__] that's what humans do they gossip
it's a thing like even just looking into
the research gossip is a thing but it is
not productive so I think Ray Dalio
situation is the Fantasyland I don't
know how many organizations that will
actually work in I just don't know he
says that 30% of the population simply
can't handle it they're incredibly
bright they're potentially very powerful
people but they just can't deal with his
system and so they don't last at his
company but I was moved beyond measure
by that so to me that's that balance of
extreme ownership and yet making sure
people know exactly what you think and
feel about their performance in real
time making sure that they have the
information to adjust their behaviors to
a
just what they're doing in the
organization but they have to do the
[__] hard work of dealing with that
and I think that's entirely on them so
remember extreme ownership is is
something you have to do and it's
something that everyone else in your
organization has to do and I will tell
you right now this goes out to everyone
at impact theory if you're not doing
that if you're not taking extreme
ownership you're not upholding your end
of the bargain
all right next question is from Daniel
bro our man Daniel bro you can always
count on this guy for engagement the
community awesome questions Thank You
Man Facebook is where it's coming from
to us today I really struggle with what
I think people are thinking of me it's
hard not to care but something I need to
toughen up and be me what ways would you
start putting this into action this is a
great follow-up question which I will
assume chase you've done intentionally
so this whole concept of self-soothing
of being the one to do the hard work is
is exactly what you need to do and and
Daniel I can see in the question you
know what you need to do this is really
about working on it it's about believing
that it's the right thing to do it's
about believing that this skill set is
incredibly incredibly important for
everyone to develop and that is the
ability to reset on yourself
insanely rapidly and to recognize that
when your egos getting in the way it's
because you're building your self-esteem
around being right being good being
powerful being smart like whatever words
you use around I'm cool and that's what
I value myself for you need to switch
that to I am capable of becoming cool
and what makes me amazing is my
willingness to stare naked ly at my
flaws and really adjust my behavior
based on that and recognize that I can
get good at anything that I decide to
allocate my time and energy to so if
something stings and I believe that this
is something that I need to get good at
in order to achieve my goals and I will
get good at that
now that was a huge release valve for me
I really want people to think about that
like if you are not valuing yourself
about who you are but instead your
willingness to become someone that
you're proud of
right the willingness to become someone
you're proud of to put a sincere effort
into that that
is the thing you pride yourself on okay
not that you are already becoming that
person that you're willing to sincerely
pour yourself into becoming that person
when that's where your area of pride
lies around now you become the learner
you're focused on getting better you're
focused on putting your energy into
something you're focused on not being
dogmatic to lowering your defenses to
hearing criticism to recognizing where
you're not good and then like get stoked
in that moment that holy [__] this guy
just slapped me about my head neck and
chest
told me that I'm bad at something and
instead of getting emotional about it
instead of rejecting them or pushing
back on them or coming to some
understanding that they're an [__]
that they're the dumb one that they
don't understand my value that instead
of doing that you say that's awesome
they've just pointed out a weakness in
my game I've gotten this far in my life
being bad at that thing I am so insanely
grateful to them to present me with that
information regardless of the form in
which it comes so even if it comes in
the form of an attack what I feel good
about my very pride is built around that
I will hear that and if I believe that
they're right because they're not always
going to be right or they're not always
gonna be right about what moves me
towards my goals but if they're right
and heating their advice and gaining
this new skill would move me towards my
goals I'm going to do that and I am so
proud of that that I don't get defensive
that's how you feel good about yourself
that's how you become anti fragile
everybody needs pride but Daniel and
everybody else you've got to do that
work and that is a daily thing for me
that is my obsession and that's why I
remember like both when I first started
becoming successful like I was really
gaining momentum I was getting better as
an entrepreneur that was like that first
realization of whoa the skill set I'm
building is so weird and so like hard to
describe to people but the thing that I
think I'm really good at and this this
is the thing that I think really
propelled me forward was I could
self-soothe faster than anybody else all
right next question this is from Aaron
Lomond jack on facebook how do you
surround yourself with people who have
the results you want what do you say to
them how can I give them my expertise
people often throw me curveballs at the
end of a question okay so how do you
surround yourself with people who have
the results you want so first and
foremost you're living in the social era
this is the most magical thing about
social media is you can surround
yourself there ideology even if you
can't surround yourself physically so
get there books follow them on social
media engage with them on social media
reach out to them there might be a
hundred a thousand people that think in
a way that would be incredibly useful go
back please just because I have a second
part to that question so the way that
they think could be incredibly valuable
to you and so really becoming a part of
their world is potentially if you're
really engaging with it really really
powerful so get in that community
surround yourself not only with that
person but other people that gravitate
towards the way that they think and then
if there's a hundred or a thousand
people that think in a way that would be
empowering to you like write to them all
and literally just spend an hour the
first hour of your day writing to people
like this in the DM in their comments
finding whatever it is that they think
is valuable delivering on that value
like for me
you guys submitting these questions is
incredibly meaningful and if you were
really paying attention you saw and I
didn't think about it when I see Daniel
burrows name come across he goes to my
live events he literally he lives in the
UK he's come here to the u.s. he's
engaged with me in the u.s. in the UK
comes that like every event he submits
questions all things that I've said
these are the things that are meaningful
to me these are the things that I want
if you want to deliver value share my
content and engage like I am
over-the-top about how often I ask
people to do that so the people that do
that like a lot those people are all
over my radar so to the second part what
do you say to them
and how do you give them your expertise
expertise is probably the wrong word if
you had said what do I say to them and
how do I deliver value which is actually
what you want to do that's a way so
following some of the the people in this
community that have just an amazing job
of heating my call to share the content
to engage with the content just insanely
insanely meaningful and by the way and
I'm gonna do this now even though it is
far too late because I need to train
myself and you guys can watch how how I
do things
at the beginning these episodes I need
to remember remind people to engage so
we're learning obsessively about the
algorithms on YouTube and Facebook and
one of the things that gets content
shared by the algorithm is high
engagement immediately off the bat so a
new ass that I'm gonna have regarding
engagement is I'm gonna remind myself
and remember to ask you guys a very
simple question right off the top that
you can engage with so that you draw
your dropping comments in so anybody if
you're a longtime viewer listener the
ask when you show up in these feeds not
only sharing it which thank you guys so
much truly that is so meaningful to us
drop in comments hello what's up I'm
here I'm joining from the Netherlands
whatever like something anything into
the comments obviously more than just
like a period of punctuation or whatever
but even just a hello to the other
people in the community is insanely
valuable from an algorithmic standpoint
so that would be great so back to don't
worry about offering your expertise
you're trying to engage with people that
are a step or two farther ahead down the
journey than use some more than your
expertise be delivering value now if you
have unique expertise that they are in
need of then that's also a grand-slam
like hey any designers out there we are
hungry for designs and you can find out
more about what designs exactly we're
looking for and we have finally I'm not
sure if Casey's here yet but we finally
got all the contract contractual stuff
that we need for you guys to submit
designs t-shirt designs whatever the
case may be so that we can make sure
that you also participate in that
financially so we've got all that
squared away all right next question
this comes from meteor YouTube is it
possible you can lower your shipping
rates on your store Tom's smiley face
question mark it's expensive for people
outside the US okay so here's the truth
yes we could lower the cost of shipping
but we would do that by making the item
more expensive so shipping for us is not
a profit center so we are literally just
passing on the cost and everybody has to
decide exactly what they want to do do
you tack on the amount to the item so if
the item is normally $21 and let's say
that the average shipping is $7 suddenly
the item becomes $28 and some people
psychologically prefer that they just
want to know all in that's what I'm
gonna pay out the door and other people
are like they're so turned off by a high
number they would rather the pain be
metered out over this is the cost for
the shirt okay god
oh they're shipping okay no worries and
then they add that on I honestly mic
studies have been done on this I think
most people settled out that it's
probably better just to cram it all into
one cost the reason that we don't
because we have a very international
audience and so the rates that we would
have to charge vary depending on where
you are I think what we should be doing
is detecting your IP address and then
pricing items in one local currency and
to that it includes the shipping for you
and then long-term since we know at the
end of the day we should be working at
all times to get the cost down we need
to partner with people that are around
the world so that because we use a
fulfillment model so we don't hold
inventory on much of our stuff we do our
top sellers with very limited pieces
that we actually hold inventory here at
impact theory for the most part we work
with a company called printful thank you
and printful when you order it it's made
and shipped so we don't have inventory
risk which is a huge part of our
business model but it comes at the cost
of higher or I should say lower margins
and then right now anyway we only have a
partner here in the US so shipping
worldwide is expensive alright question
from Daniel Brees on Facebook Daniel
Brees is also somebody that engages
highly with our content Daniel thank you
so much man I am loving the new
knowledge trail for those of you don't
know we added the knowledge trail which
is everything that I'm reading plus like
the last hundred books that I read on
impact three calm so you can go there
sign up for that you also get my notes
by the way which I was super weird about
in the beginning they're literally the
notes that it take while I'm reading the
book which I had never taken for anyone
else's edification other than my own but
hope that that's something people are
really into so you can go sign up for
that so loving the new knowledge trail
I'm super grateful for the ability to
send you a question by email and thusly
consider email a very valuable tool why
have you repeatedly stated that you hate
email only because it will be the
downfall of Western civilization even
though Jared hates that because it's
probably this is
holding two competing ideas it's
probably the most effective economic
vehicle for us because it's the only
part of the community that we own in
that there's no algorithm that controls
whether you see it which actually isn't
quite true and for anybody that's ever
had to deal with spam filters you know
exactly what I mean but nonetheless it's
certainly more ownership than Instagram
or Facebook most reach I'm gonna I'm
gonna call total [__] on that but
we'll we'll debate that after this I
actually I know what you mean
meaning that of the people that we have
in our ecosystem we can reach them
because we're not algorithmically yeah
that is fair why have you repeatedly
that's why I just diatribe about that
actually no I didn't so the reason I
hate email just to answer these as we go
the reason I hate email is because it is
a deep and abiding shame that sits on
anyone who thinks that it is better to
go into their email inbox to find out
what other people think they should be
doing with their time than to be
self-directed now we'll say it like this
I have such a clear vision of what I'm
trying to do with this company that the
odds that someone from the outside knows
better what I should be doing with my
time is exactly zero that if you have a
team that are in anything approaching
walking distance to you that it is so
inefficient to send them an email
because humans use email as a reminder
system so if they see anything and what
you're asking for from them where you've
left something out like they need to
know how many people is this going to
they will just put it back on you how
many people do you want me to build this
same for rather than pick up the phone
and say hey there's three things in your
email that are missing just give me the
answers right now and I'll give you the
answer so instead of worrying about
deadly efficiency they look for ways to
make it somebody else's problem and they
they stop thinking about it when they
send you that hey how many people does
this apply to knowing that you'll
respond and so that when it comes back
into their email box they'll think about
it again rather than saying here are the
ten things that are important to my role
what I need to do for the company and
I'm just gonna work my way down this
list and I'm gonna be proactive I'm
gonna get things moving and I'm going to
take the most efficient form of
communication which email is probably
the least efficient form of
communication first is face to face
second is phone third is probably text
and then a giant chasm of a gap and then
email so that's why I hate it and I
could go way deeper on that cuz I was
actually a little bit of a clumsy
explanation but the way that people use
email is just it is death to efficiency
your next part I know you don't like
that people open it and simply react
exactly since it is just a tool the way
we use it as a choice truth just like
social media very true do you think you
would move the company away from email
considering your thoughts on it I think
that there are two competing ideas so
the reality is that people email us and
there is a certain amount of that that
is useful so for instance as anti email
as I am my assistant comes from my
emails and make sure that I'm not
missing any major awesome opportunities
the reason that I don't do it for myself
is it is inevitable something will catch
your eye it will be intriguing people
literally craft the headlines of the
email to get you to click which works
even on me even though I am awash and
shame every time I do it but you'll
click in you'll see what it's about it
triggers a whole cascade of thoughts
which then occupy your mind anywhere
from a minute to an hour who knows and
so you go off on these crazy tangents so
I don't think it's possible to remove it
but it drives me crazy when I hear that
people here keep mind we all work in one
house so when I hear the people in the
company are emailing each other I want
to chew through something it's crazy to
me
they're never more than like 15 steps
away it's madness so yeah that's my
thoughts on that okay next one is from
Karen black Facebook what would you say
when dealing with clients when an
industry is changing how would you
manage your client expectations hmm I'm
not entirely sure what you mean by this
so I so there there are several ways to
read this so one any time you're talking
about where an industry is rapidly
changing I would say that Jay salmon has
way better answers and I'm ever going to
give you read the book disrupt you but
in the book he does not talk about
managing people's expectations he talks
about capitalizing on that disruption
which is where I'd want you to focus
your energy but I can read between the
lines and I'm getting that your clients
expect something that is absolutely
outrageous and is not in any way shape
or form
reality and there is a certain amount of
getting them to understand exactly what
your process is and what they should
expect but hiding in my answer is the
belief that the only path to sustaining
your business is to set the bar
ridiculously high and then surpass all
expectations so I don't think that going
in and managing your clients
expectations down and getting the bar
below what you know you can deliver and
then delivering more than that being
like wow see what I did that won't win
like in the long term you're going to
lose because the only way for someone to
win long term to really dazzling to
become one of the Great's in your
industry which is how you're going to
get more business and scale and all of
that is to do something that is truly
extraordinary so I would say rather than
wasting an ounce of energy talking
people's expectations down you should
spend all of your time and energy
getting so good that they will be
dazzled no matter how ridiculous their
expectations and yeah so that is
certainly what I tried train my team to
do now that doesn't mean that I don't
hold the competing idea in my head that
yes I know that there are only certain
things we're actually going to be able
to execute against and if you throw
things so far into the tree that every
answer is we're gonna terraform Mars
like I get it there at some point it
just becomes so absurd that even you
aren't going to take the actionable
steps or that it's gonna be so far off
so to give you an idea we're building a
studio that's going to be bigger than
Disney but I understand that right now
today I need to create amazing social
content I need to go speak at events and
I need to do q and A's that last 11
hours and dazzle people and show them
something but that's that's the thing
small today it's I get it like I'm not
throwing a hundred million dollars at
the next blockbuster film so I
understand that we have to take these
incremental steps but at the same time I
know what I'm working towards and it's
extraordinary so you have to do both all
right
[Music]
my man so Anne your boy chase had you
gold and covered it's here highlighted
in yellow everything so shout out to
Armando Marquez who ordered the shirt
using am Alive code so we're watching
the back end you guys are amazing
Armando Thank You Man that's absolutely
phenomenal I love that what shirt did he
order by the way nice get that I t-shirt
all right mad respect okay
Edgar be on YouTube I can't find a drive
for anything for longer than two weeks I
just quickly lose passion for anything
how can I find something that will make
me want to get up in the morning okay so
here's the reality you're not gonna find
that you're gonna develop that and I
really think that's the big disconnect
for people here is they believe that
this is about sitting in a quiet space
turning inward being like an
archaeologist uncovering something
that's been laying dormant inside of
them and now all the sudden they've got
the excitement in the motivation to go
after it and that's just not how it
works it is about sitting in a quiet
space but you're sitting in a quiet
space so that you can get your mind in
an alpha wave state which is a calm and
creative state that comes from a nice
simple just breathe meditation practice
doing what I call Finca tating where
you're using that calm creative state to
let your mind wander on on an almost
subconscious level
and it will kick up to your conscious
mind the things that you currently find
mildly interesting and that's where it
starts it starts with an interest and
then you engage with that so if it's
dance go take a dance class if it's a
video game sit down and play video games
and then you're going to find a way
which by the way I use those two as
examples of things that people think are
hopelessly their hobbies or total waste
of time it's never gonna be something
you could build something around and of
course especially in the world of video
games people have made just unimaginable
wealth off of pursuing that but it
starts with not judging yourself
recognizing that you do get excited
about it that is something that pulls
you through that it creates energy the
more you engage with it it doesn't drain
you of energy and in that process you'll
see through engaging if that interest
turns into a fascination if the more you
engage with it the more you want to
engage with it
that's how we'll define a fascination
that it creates energy so the more you
engage the more you want to engage if it
turns into a fascination then you're
going to gain
mastery gaining mastery as hard as hell
it forces you to push through boredom it
forces you to practice things in a very
disciplined manner to go through it over
and over and over again it's like if you
want to be a musician you got to play a
whole lot of scales you've got to
practice the thing that you're not good
at you've got to get that brain body
connection and it just takes an
unimaginable amount of work and if you
don't love it and if you don't have that
compelling future of the music just
flowing through you if that doesn't
excite you if you want to be a
professional video game player and the
thought of being in an arena full of
screaming fans as you trounce your
opponent's if that doesn't get you
excited then that's not the thing for
you and there's an amazing thing called
whoop it chases the memorizer of who
created this chase I have failed me you
have failed me and yourself so chase oh
man if you're right I'm gonna be so
impressed Gabrielle oxygen you just
saved yourself on the one-yard line my
man you're a [__] stud well played so
she came up with the saying called whoop
wo Opie whish outcome obstacle plan this
is how you in the early stages figure
out whether this interest is potentially
something that you could be fascinated
by deeply engaged with enough to really
go through the process of gaining
mastery which is how you're going to see
if this how you're going to turn this
into a real passion okay so first of all
passion comes from the gaining of
mastery over time you stay excited about
it as you get good you'll develop
passion getting good at something and
having a real skill set around it is I
think a key part of passion okay so
Gabrielle Ottinger autogen woop so wish
what do you want to come true I want to
be a rich and famous video game player
fantastic what is the outcome I want to
be the best in the world at League of
Legends great now we know exactly what
that looks like
what's the obstacle I currently suck at
League of Legends great plan how are you
going to get good at League of Legends
I'm going to go be I'm gonna be an
intern with Team Liquid and I'll work
for free for six months whatever I'll
eat top ramen I'll live on the floor of
my parents basement like whatever you
need to do in order to get your
expenses to the quick you're going to
donate let's say 14 hours a day to
teamliquid and then you're gonna spend a
certain number of hours actually playing
and you're gonna do that for the next
six years whatever it takes and you know
you work your way up the ranks okay
awesome when you look at that plan is
that exciting are you like oh my god
the thought of like being an intern at
Team Liquid that's insane like I'm so
excited about that and if you look at
that plan and are like over the moon at
the thought of that being your life then
boom you're done like go get after it
chase it if on the other hand you look
at that and go sleeping at my parents
house like I can't even bear the evening
top ramen for the next year like that's
ridiculous I I just would never want to
do that and I have to play video games
how many hours like no that's not at all
what I want to do cool it now you know
and also keep mine on the field of
developing a passion there's the direct
if you love video games you want to be a
professional video game player that's
direct it doesn't there's no more way to
be engaged in video games and playing
video games of being around video games
and to pay them play them for money but
there's a universe of so if your skill
set is hey I'm really good at accounting
or I'm an amazing office manager awesome
go apply at a game company where at
least you're around those things the
posters hanging on the wall are those
things the heroes celebrated by the
company are people that are playing
those games that the chances of going
with your company to a major event
that's centered around video games all
becomes very real so for instance one of
the people that shoots this show Matt
shoutout to Sam what's up Sam works with
Riot Games and League of Legends and she
loves even though she's a filmmaker and
that's how she brings her talents to
bear she loves being around the game she
loves the people the atmosphere the
types of people that are interested in
it everything about it is just fun for
her so even though what she's doing is
holding a camera just like she does here
she gets to engage in the universe of
video games even though she's not
playing or developing them so there are
many many many ways that you're
developed passion can be expressed in a
way that is financially viable alright
on that I think I've earned a bit of a
tasty beverage here it's gonna have a
swell
all right knowledge cue from YouTube I'm
from India what is up India and here the
opportunity is to start a business and
becoming an entrepreneur is less
compared to America so any tips to grow
from here and become successful okay so
this is multifaceted one is to find a
way come hell or high water to go where
you think there's more opportunities so
if that's America boom there you go and
there's people doing it every single day
if you don't want to do that you want to
stay in India then you're gonna have to
be the generator of opportunities which
is how the stuff always works scale
becomes the concern so if you think you
know with in fact I'm gonna be recording
an impact quotes on this today thanks to
chase so you're getting a lot of love
today you're crushing it
chase sends me quotes that I can use for
impact quotes he's one of the only
people I've put this request out which
by the way I don't know that I've ever
put it out to the entire community if
you guys ever come across really
powerful quotes please send them to
connect at impact Theory com put impact
quote or quotes either way in the
subject line chase we'll keep an eye out
for them he will be the great aggregator
of quotes things that are really
powerful that you want to see me
incorporate into an impact quote if
you're not already watching those by the
way I love those things they are fun to
do watch them I have to record three
today and I need quotes so one of the
quotes is around start where you are so
whatever you have access to right now
start with that and don't so these are
the two quotes that which is a quote
from our thrash it's much more eloquent
than I don't have it memorized and then
the other one is John Wooden and
basically paraphrasing again don't let
what you can can't do get in the way of
what you can do so sure there are all
kinds of limitations I'm sure that
you're facing all of us face those don't
let that get in the way of what you are
good at and where you can start and so
what is that thing like what could you
do right now that's going to create
opportunity and remember people are
always going to get behind people that
can create opportunities if you can make
money for somebody they're going to
support you they're going to facilitate
that because you can always trust people
to be selfish so if you can help further
someone else's selfish desires that can
be a great way for you to get a lot of
energy and momentum going that was how I
convinced the guys that would ultimately
be
my partners in quest remember they just
hired me as a copywriter in the
beginning so I had to show them that I
could feed their selfish desires to
build this company that I can be a very
meaningful contributor to that and so in
that process they just kept moving me up
promoting me promoting me because I was
feeding into what they were trying to
create for themselves so that's always a
way to start generating opportunities
also you have so much connection now
over the internet to find people other
people in India or elsewhere that are
trying to create opportunities you could
team up with them you can learn from
other people what they've done
how have other people in other countries
where there aren't the kinds of
opportunities that there are in America
but they've done amazing things what did
they do and so following their path find
those people identify them now follow
accounts socially that use relevant
hashtags don't just get caught up in the
motivational stuff like for instance I
don't think I like to think my Instagram
account is pretty damn useful because I
try to give you more than just the trite
[__] but at the end of the day like I've
only got so much room but coming here
where you can ask a question and get
really specific answers so something
like that finding people that are giving
you those specific how-to is the really
actionable stuff that'll be really
really beneficial so create that path
model it after somebody else has done
something similar to what you want to do
all right
Roman hop YouTube hi Tom quick question
is the meet up tomorrow in New York City
still going to happen hell yes
so in New York I leave tonight I'm
taking the red-eye and then we'll be
rocking it there 7 p.m. check my
facebook page for the event details we
have nailed down the location you can
find that so go to my facebook page
facebook.com forward slash tom bill you
and you can get the details on that but
100% borrowing my airplane falling from
the sky and a fiery ball of death we
will be doing that tomorrow all right
mark weeks YouTube do you plan to scale
your business of personal branding
meaning to train others to do what you
were doing as far as answering questions
or mentoring others no but I'll answer
any and every question that you have
just because that's not part of my
business model but I'll answer any
questions that you have so if you have
specific questions mark go ahead and
submit those I will tell you anything
and everything we have exactly zero
secrets we are trying to help people
that's that actually is only partly true
i time
when I give information so there are
certain things that I will hold back for
whatever reason oftentimes having to do
with partnerships that we're working on
not wanting to overstate something that
I think is gonna happen but may not so I
don't want to put it out yet but for the
most part like I was just [__] give
every answer that I have
Brenton Ward Facebook hey Tom I'm in the
midst of a career change what my mind is
changing weekly on which direction to
focus on next for the new business I
want to start any suggestions on
strategy to choose and stick to Big Love
from Australia
what is up Australia yeah so here's what
you want to do dramatic pause for the
tasty beverage okay what you want to do
is you've got to figure out like do you
just lack grit and if you lacquer it
then you're gonna have to develop it to
really figure that out read the amazing
book by that title grit by Angela
Duckworth which chase you're gonna
continue to deliver just immeasurable
value today and tell me did we add it to
the book list okay so we're almost there
so grid is becoming what's that it is
there look at that
we're alive so grid is now on the list
did we add it is did we bump something
or is the list now 26 books oh wow the
book gets better and better by the day
or the list so 27 books on the list you
should check out grit is just amazing
amazing amazing if I remember right it's
in the top five might even be book three
or four so check that one out will
really walk you through the process of
identifying whether you have grit and
you're just encountering things you
don't care about or whether you lack
grit and you're just emotionally
intoxicated by the beginnings of things
which is where a lot of people get stuck
the beginnings is always the most fun
but you need to move past that and you
need to be able to stick with something
and I've already gone through woop in
this but look up wo o P that will be an
important important part of deciding
whether that's something that you should
be gritty about or whether you should
pick a different strategy so yeah that's
what I would do all right Ian lip Kowski
from Facebook how does business advice
shift for an artist looking to sell
creative works as opposed to a typical
sales model
I don't know that it does there's always
gonna be different tactics depending on
what industry are in without question
but like if you look at iconic which is
a really interesting Instagram account
which is just selling straight art and
its ICAO and IC or K I can't remember
it's one of the two really interesting
people somehow involved with a guy named
mark Brazil I don't know enough about
these guys but anyway so I followed them
because I think their artwork is
interesting and they are using
tried-and-true social tactics to get
people to follow them into their
ecosystem understanding it takes seven
touches to get a conversion I'm sure
they're building an email list which
should make Jared very very happy trying
to add value to their community I mean
all the things that make business today
in the social age very relevant so
they've got a value-add Instagram
account which also happens to promote
their products the ideology of their
accounts feeds into the ideology that's
expressed in their artwork all of that
like holds true at the end of the day
and this is something man whether you're
an artist or not you need to [__]
understand you have to sell [__] at the
end of the day and look I get it I'm
talking to myself
as much as anybody else like when you're
in a business where you really want to
help people it is all so [__] hard to
say go buy my [__] but I'm telling you
go buy my [__] right now go to shop that
impact Theory calm and buy some [__]
like at the end of the day that is we
are selling [__] that is how this works
you have to be able to become a
self-sustaining economic vehicle
otherwise at the end of this I will stop
doing it because it is a cash hemorrhage
you have to get to the point where
people are they would much rather have
the thing you're selling then they would
their money
awesome so you're adding value you're
solving a problem so you've got to find
a way like what is the problem that your
art addresses and that is a tricky
situation so you've got to figure out
and how can you tap into something where
the person no longer wants your art they
need your art and so all of those
business principles they all apply
otherwise people just aren't going to
buy it yeah without getting into like
bullshitty sales techniques like you
want to answer that question so how do
you create that needing people how do
you get them so excited about you and
what you're doing
that they want to buy it so I'll say
general business principles apply all
right Ali to Rani YouTube hey Tom and
the impact theory team how can I help my
girlfriend understand that she is way
more capable than she thinks and be able
to connect her with her true passion for
success okay so first of all that
passion is going to be something that is
developed by her it's not something that
is on the our path I guess is the word
that you use so that's got to be
something that's real for her and so
there is no one-size-fits-all so one you
need to identify has she already
developed that is there a path that is
really exciting for her were that vision
not only of where she's going but how
she's gonna get there is so exciting
that it pulls her out of bed in the
morning it gets her moving that's really
really important and then the way more
capable part is really reinforcing
behavior that you see that really is
capable that really does deliver a
result help her focus on that reminder
that she gets what she focuses on and
then actually help her focus on that
thing so like for instance when Lisa
does something that I'm really blown
away by that I think really feeds into
the company mission I'm gonna tell her
like whoa that was really impressive
your hard work on that is amazing look
at the results you've delivered I think
that's really incredible you're putting
a lot of work and this is a result that
it delivered I think all of that stuff
is very very meaningful and so I'll give
you a very specific example so Lisa and
Cassie Howe started a podcast called the
Shero ik podcast which by the way guys
and gals I'm telling you it's a great
podcast it's very much female centric
but there's some really amazing takeaway
certainly a deeper level of
understanding for guys about women so
regardless at least check it out go see
what they're doing is really really
impressive and so that's one of those
ways I see how much energy and effort
she's putting into it and I see the
result that she's getting in terms of
people DMing her and talking about how
much what they're doing on the podcast
is changing and impacting them getting
them to think more differently which the
end of the day our job is to pull people
out of the matrix
so whether she's doing that under the
brand of Shero ik or she's doing that
under the brand of impact theory is
pretty irrelevant if he's really into
the message also building Herschel's
social platform is incredibly meaningful
to the long-term success of impact
theory so as I see her putting energy
and effort into that as her numbers are
growing it's literally just taking the
time to clap
that and say you're crushing it look how
far much farther you're going both in
the measurable metrics and in the softer
metrics of just the they're like outpour
of a motion that she's getting from
people so that you know that it's having
that kind of impact so I take the time
to focus on that and elucidate that for
her and just make sure that she's
focusing on that and that she's not
getting lost and how difficult it is and
how much time it takes so tactics that
hopefully will help you as well all
right keep koa from YouTube how did you
become such a good intelligent speaker
from conscious training or from being in
sports or something else
okay so definitively I have put more
time and energy into getting good at
public speaking than I've put into
anything else in my life including
entrepreneurship and I've put an insane
amount of time and energy into
entrepreneurship but from the time I was
in say seventh grade to differentiate
myself from my sister who's very good at
sports and I was borderline [__] at
sports
I once this is an actual true story
everybody lean in and feel my pain for a
second I once got the basketball in a
real basketball game people in the
stands and I got cornered by the team
because I didn't know how to dribble
very well I turned my back to them and
I'm outside the three-point range and I
became so panicky that I threw the ball
almost straight up into the air it
almost hit the rafters everyone burst
into uncontrollable laughter I still if
I see one of my friends from that team
at that time and this was God was at
ninth grade he they'll still laugh about
it because it was so absurd that's where
I was at sports so despite the fact that
I kind of thought I should be good at
sports I didn't have the discipline or
self-esteem or growth mindset to
practice and get good
I had begun differentiating my
differentiating myself through Speech
and Debate and by the way will someone
remind me to talk to Stephanie about
that that's something that we should
include in the book so yeah that was
embarrassing but I I began practicing
getting good at speech and debate and so
by the time I was in high school I was
every day at my lunch table so this
wasn't like I was up on stage but I
wanted to get good at comedy I thought
my future was as a stand-up comic so I
would sit at a lunch table and for the
hour that we were at lunch I would try
to make people laugh and my metric every
day was there's this one kid that really
really laughed hard and my goal is to
get him to spit something through his
nose so whether that was milk or soda or
whatever like I knew it was a good day
if I could get him laughing so hard that
he couldn't even finish his drink that
was always a goal and so I did that for
four years so for four years Monday
through Friday for an hour a day I was
practicing stand-up comedy which is
inevitable inevitably practicing being
eloquent not having unintentional breaks
in your speech not using a lot of hums
in Oz and then also if there was any
speaking things that the school was
hosting or national competitions I would
do all of that it was on the Speech and
Debate team I just practice practice
practice like relentlessly and I put
just a ridiculous number of hours into
doing that and then as an entrepreneur
it's something you find yourself when
you're in a leadership position of
speaking a lot more and so being
intentional with that practice having
things like I don't want to UM and AH at
all I want to get that to zero I don't
want to repeat myself I want it like one
thing that I practice a lot now because
this is something I think I'm
particularly still bad at and I want to
get really really good at this is being
able to go down a tangent but holding on
to what my original thought was and
being able to get back to that
seamlessly when I'm doing impact Theory
the main show the interviews I'm always
trying to do that or even just sit
quietly while listening to that person
talk but holding my head where I want to
take the conversation very very
important and I'm practicing that very
consciously so whatever you're trying to
do at the end of the day it comes into
practice all right Koren Davis who's an
amazing contributor to this community
YouTube
can you talk a little bit about habit
loops what they are and how we can best
utilize them so the important part about
a habit loop is the loop part so any
loop needs a trigger there's several
good books on this near a all has
written a great book and I'm gonna
forget
I think Neer's is called can't believe
I'm blanking on the title of his so I
forget it's near a all is the author he
wrote a book on a habit I'm forgetting
the title of it and then
and there's another one on the list
called habits which i think is by Norman
something got him really blanking on
names today it's terrible so anyway
check the list at least one of them is
on the list but there's great books out
there regardless of the fact that I
can't remember them on habits so you
need that trigger so what's gonna be the
trigger so there's a case study done
about what Kit Kat did which was they
wanted to tie Kit Kats to the habit loop
or to the trigger of coffee so it was
Kit Kats and coffee and they did this
whole campaign and had a huge surge in
sales because every time people thought
about coffee they thought about Kit Kats
so while maybe not great from a dietary
perspective really good from a habit
loop trigger so one that I use in my
life is let your desire to criticize be
a habit loop trigger to pay an authentic
compliment
so criticism triggering compliments
that's been one that's really really
been amazing for me
so yeah getting into loops where you do
something that's empowering but it needs
that reminder it needs that thing that
kicks that off so what is that so for me
I put my gym clothes as another one
right next to my bed so the second that
I get out of bed the clothes that I put
on are my gym clothes which becomes the
trigger to get my ass into the gym so
and it's super weird and this is
actually happen to me a couple times
where I'll put the gym clothes on and
then remember that for whatever reason I
can't do the gym I have to immediately
begin preparing or something like that
and it's so like powerful being dressed
in those gym clothes that not going to
the gym then feels really weird and
feels like a violation of my identity
which is a whole nother thing that I
won't go into but everything that I've
accomplished in my life is the result of
identities habits and routines so
identity habits and routines alright
Radha Siva hi Tom so happy to see you
again you as well can you share with us
step by step to how to build an identity
are you doing this on purpose really
that's purely accident wow that's
amazing
okay so awesome follow-up question the
way that I build identity goes like this
I use one I need to identify what is my
goal what am i trying to
and by the way while manipulating your
identity changing your identity is very
simple it takes a lot of effort it takes
a lot of consistency and to to fail to
live up to the new identity that you're
building for yourself is really
detrimental so you to yourself to your
opinion of yourself so you need to be
very careful what promises you make
yourself you need to be very careful
about what you decide you're going to
change your identity too so I first
identify my goal and then I work
backwards
to achieve that goal what kind of person
would I need to become and then when I
identify something that I really believe
in and I'm really prepared to see
through to the end I'll say I'm the type
of person that I'm the type of person
that so if I want to gain muscle lose
fat I'm the type of person that goes to
the gym everyday I'm the type of person
that is willing to suffer for my goals
and that suffering one is so
foundational to any goal but really to
changing your physique to eating right
because it is going to be hard there is
going to be a degree of suffering so
making sure that you build that in and
then making sure that I feel good about
that when I live up to it and that I
feel badly about myself when I failed to
live up to that
so I'm the type of person that goes to
the gym it's technically not every day I
only work out five days a week I'm the
type of person that goes to the gym
Monday through Friday I'm the type of
person that is willing to suffer for
what I want so hey when I get up in the
morning I'm gonna immediately go to the
gym
hey when that rep gets hard I'm gonna
keep pushing because I'm willing to
suffer and grind it out and get to the
other side of that so I use those and
then the really powerful part of this
not only do I tell myself that I'm the
type of person that I'll tell anyone who
will listen I'll tell my team I'll tell
my family I'll come on here and I'll say
I'm the type of person that XYZ liked
doing that then you trigger congruence
the need to do what you say you're going
to do and then when you reinforce that
by feeling good about who you are when
you do it and punishing yourself yes
punishing yourself when you don't do it
all of that feeds into man
I really want to feel good and I really
want to feel like I disappointed myself
and you're every time that you look live
up to that you're earning credibility
with yourself which is incredibly
important and you earn credibility
through the big things yes but you want
to set micro goals for yourself so a
micro goal is just showing up at the gym
every day right so I'm the type of
person that goes to the gym every day
I'm not saying that I'm the type in fact
this actually isn't a part of my
identity
I'm not the type of person that shows up
every day and [__] crush is that
every day no matter what I don't do that
because the gym isn't that important to
me so I was very careful not to make
that a part of my identity so man I'll
be the first to tell you on a day where
I'm not feeling it man there's just
there's days where I totally cut myself
slack in the gym and yes that becomes
friction with I'm the type of person
that's willing to suffer for my goals
for sure but you you begin to find this
equilibrium where my physique for
instance I am NOT gonna be winning any
physique competitions anytime soon but I
am happy with where my physique is so my
physique is an exact reflection of how
important it is to me and I don't
[__] myself about that so my
physique is important but it's not the
most important part but if you want to
know how much energy I'm willing to put
into my [__] mind and develop that
dude I'm willing to go berserk for that
suffer for that Reid when all I want to
do is sleep I can't tell you how many
times like for instance I will get off a
plane off a red-eye I'll be [__]
exhausted and I'll still read and I'll
take notes and I'll force myself to
focus because that's how important it is
to develop my mind so the weight on me
from myself to develop my knowledge to
develop my mind is unending and I tie in
my obligation to my team to building the
studio all of that is wrapped in this
ball which is why I say during the week
if I'm awake I'm either working or
working out and every little nick in
that is I feel it because it is so
important to me for that to be true for
me to be putting that kind of time and
energy into doing something okay I could
clearly keep going on that all day but
we'll stop there that was a little
glimpse into the emotions that I work up
around it all of it
Deanna do Cova Facebook how can I be
sure
that
the goals that we have chosen correspond
to our personality and would allow us to
fulfill our potential to the max how can
I be sure that the goals that we have
chosen so it's interesting so this comes
down to whether people think that
there's an intrinsic personality or
whether you think that you can develop
that you can actually develop something
that will turn into excitement because
you've chosen to be excited about that I
think that we all have predilections I
think there are certain things that
we're definitively wired for but just
look how different people are from
culture to culture in terms of the
specific ways that things express
themselves they're clearly things that
we as a species share for sure so we can
take those for granted that they are
hard-wired but the specific ways that we
express ourself from culture to culture
and I say that very specifically because
it's different than what people would
call personality type to personality
type I think that there there actually
are personality types I think some of
its hardwired I think some of it is what
you decide is gonna be true about you
over time but at the end of the day
going back to something we were talking
about earlier what are those things that
create energy for you versus take energy
away from you if it creates energy for
you regardless of whether that's
something that you have fanned those
flames over time to really give a [__]
about like for instance I will tell you
I that I'm unrecognizable from when I
was a teenager to now when I was a
teenager I was goofy I wore psy I was a
size 36 waist I wore size 54 pants
because I thought it was [__]
hilarious I wore a big clown hat truly
it was like imagine all however many
primary colors they are cut into like
little triangle pieces it looked like a
[__] clown hat I wore everything that
I wore I got for a quarter at the thrift
store that was like a whole thing for me
so just because I thought it was really
really funny I could not get laid to
save my life because all I wanted to do
be funny and I made fun of myself all
the time of self-deprecating humor I
didn't like to make fun of other people
so I just made fun of myself all the
time and then that seeped into my
subconscious so that was actually how I
thought about myself and then by when I
went to college I really wanted to get
good at film and I I thought this is
gonna be that thing that like it's gonna
be the the passion of my life and I want
to take myself more seriously and so I
literally changed the things that I was
excited by so it was no longer like I
don't get excited about the thought of
sitting at a lunch table anymore and
making everybody laugh that's not
exciting to me so what excites me is the
thought of pulling somebody out of the
matrix so that like what used to excite
me and what would have pulled me through
the day when I was 16 is very different
than what's exciting to me now and what
pulls me through the day now so those
were decisions but at the end of the day
the things that I try to make my life
about are the things that are exciting
and pulled me through so that that's how
you should be looking at the goals that
you've set for yourself like do they
create energy in your life or do they
rob you of energy all right so we're
here at the tail end of this bad boy so
before I go I want to remind everybody
that we're having a special right now it
is only good for one hour one minute in
about 30 seconds and that is use the
code Amma live that's a ma Li ve to get
10% off we have a bunch of new items in
the store so go check out our shore
store at chop impact Theory comm we are
busting ass and my boy will vu will vu
who just turned 19
yesterday he has been spearheading the
effort to create new and amazing clothes
and then Lindsey Lindsey who's done the
photography the photography is live
right oh man this photography is amazing
she is a community member here at impact
theory and without even talking to us
but some of the clothes did a photo
shoot with this amazing woman who has an
incredible story which I think you can
learn more about on our website so go
check it out but Lindsey what's the name
of her photography company Lindsey Haun
photography h ahn ji n lindsey han
photography comm check it out she is
anime
using photographer it was such an honor
to have her come and photograph us all
and might I say the photos of my wife
holy hell Lindsay as a husband thank you
they are breathtaking scorchingly hot
amazing so thank you thank you and for
everybody out in the community like
Lindsay that has made offers to bring
value to us behind the scenes thank you
all so much we man we are honored so
absolutely incredible all right we have
to wrap guys thank you so much for
joining me today if this added value
please do share it that's incredibly
meaningful and important and a reminder
the next time you join us for a live if
you would the second you get into the
feed comment greet everybody that helps
us with with the algorithm to get this
shared even farther if you haven't
already please do sign up for our email
list which you can go to impact Theory
calm right now get on our newsletter I
write them myself these are all guys if
it says it was written by me it was
[__] written by me that goes for
every like thumbs up all of that stuff
the newsletter it is all 100% me anytime
that I worked with a ghostwriter like
I'm doing on the book that I'm writing
right now I will full disclose that [__]
so yeah the newsletter is me for you
guys it is probably the most the thing
that I feel most intimately connected to
you guys on I'm thinking about you I'm
holding you in my head when I write that
so go sign up would be amazing and until
next time my friends be legendary
take care
[Applause]
you